something's gone down that I don't think
I've seen the light of on YouTube a
video that Rachel outs put up today
unlisted linked from her Twitter account
I won't link the video here because she
may decide to remove that tweet and
remove the link and then I wouldn't
necessarily know about that and the link
would still be there if you go and
search through her tweets if she still
wants that link to be available and for
you to have the chance to see that video
then you can do so via her Twitter
account but in that video she is deeply
distressed and crying genuinely crying
and has also self harmed she has cut
herself and she there is blood oozing
from arm really this involves what has
led her to this is the situation between
her and essence of thought and it's a
really odious situation to begin with
you do not as a content creator with
even an iota of power tell somebody to
commit suicide especially when you're
someone who advocates for people who
have mental issues if you want to take
up a platform and argue for those who
are marginalized and protect them and do
what you can to defend them I agree I
try to do the same thing with my
platform but you do not tell somebody in
front of your own audience because
they're watching it's Twitter to kill
themselves here's a tweet exchange from
them from before to get a little more
context if you need it this is where
lizzie lange pointed out that there was
no need to talk to Rachel Oates like
that and of course has a thought says
they're tired of transphobic abused from
bigots like those two and they deserve
everything the trans community can throw
at them and given that a few exchanges
lower essence of thought told them to
kill themselves
it can only be inferred that this is
essence of thought saying that they
deserve trans people telling them that
they should kill themselves and she's
discussing the fact that she has self
found in the past which is I think a new
revelation if you like online for
publicly although it's not news
to me I can say now she'd mentioned the
fact that this is something that she's
done and that the recent events had led
her to this once upon a time many
girlfriends ago I had a girlfriend who
got it into her head that she'd want to
become a classical art restoration
specialist then got that right there's
you know she wanted to be a painter but
she also wanted to have you know steady
income by having some kind of expertise
degree in profession that involve
painting in the class comments and them
talk to a guy who really was an expert
in the field he was a very old early
gentleman connected to my parents
business my parents business in both
museums and art galleries and I said to
him you know I got this girlfriend she's
been thinking about going back to
university to get the SPECIAL credential
to do this form of art restoration but
her concern is you know her interest is
in fine arts she's never really been
much for for chemistry you know and it
seems like getting this credential you
know it involves a lot of very detailed
study of chemistry a lot of exams making
sure you've got what it takes through
his chemistry and this was his apartment
yes will you see that is the job was
great answer succinct and I was at a
stage in my life where I was mature
enough to really get it and I smiled at
him you know I kind of shook my head
silently
and I said yes hmm just so yeah that's
you know what someone else or maybe
fitted me if five years younger than I
was or something a few years younger you
know it's really easy to ignore that
kind of advice
come back to someone saying oh well yeah
but you know she could do this if you do
that you make some excuses or have some
aah right hmm what you pointed out to me
is that something my girlfriend is
thinking of as extraneous or as an
obstacle or as a footnote it's none of
those things it's the essence of the
thing it's the most important element
it's precisely doesn't matter how good
your taste is in fine art if you want to
train for this job and do this job this
job is all about chemistry you know
that's that's what it is and I went home
that night and I repeated verbatim the
conversation I had with this elderly
gentleman to my girlfriend and I said
you see she thought it over and she
decided that that was not the line of
work for her because she did not want to
devote herself to a highly technical
field that almost entirely consists of
chemistry if you want to be on YouTube
if you specifically want to do critique
of controversial political and social
issues on YouTube if you specifically
want to offer criticism of social values
and mores including religion religion
above all else this is the job
criticizing and being criticized the
people who are playing this game
they chose the level of critique they
wanted to engage in and in this case
we're talking about a category of
YouTube videos
more or less described as atheist
activism that's how Jacqueline Glenn got
started right Jaclyn Glenn was an
atheist activist and what did she become
she became the girl who breaks down
weeping on camera because she broke up
with her boyfriend
and there was one boyfriend and another
boyfriend another lover she became the
girl who talks about her breast implants
and her relationships and her
experiences with psychedelic drugs right
and all that began with a critique of
religion with critique of politics and
social norms and more there was an
intermediate step right because the very
nature of that critique that remains
lowbrow is that of course she criticizes
other youtubers and other youtubers
criticize her most notably in her case
she had this conflict with a Nisshin
went on for many years Jack and Glenn
did break down weeping she was upset by
she was hurt by that conflict okay this
is what the job is this is what the job
requires and this is what the job
becomes if you let it
[Music]
on my channel 3.5 million maybe coming
up now on 4 million views in total the
video that has the largest number of
views of all time is me breaking down
weeping in the midst of drama with
another YouTube it is is that what I
decided to do with my youtube channel
for the rest of my corner unquote career
here is that the direction I then took
things in I'm making a series of videos
on Aristotle and I am acutely aware that
those videos will have dramatically
fewer viewers even within my regular
viewing audience let alone insectoids
their world dramatically fewer viewers
then if I came on camera and talked
about my sex life and talked about my
problems with my girlfriend the videos
are gonna do what Aristotle will have
fewer viewers than if I just recorded
myself lifting weights at the gym or
talking about diet and exercise they're
gonna have fewer views than almost
anything I could propose or actually do
why am i doing it why am i doing it I'm
doing it for the same reason why these
seemingly seemingly vacuous people came
on YouTube in the first place now I was
there I remember one Jaclyn Glenn first
camel on YouTube I think I can remember
when Rachael loans first came on YouTube
you know what a lot of you people
started playing this game in the first
place to engage in some kind of
meaningful critique whether it's
critique of what you think is wrong with
religion or politics of society and I
think you came on with the motivation to
make the world a better place
and that's why I'm gonna take the time
to break down Aristotle's politics and
explain to you what it is Act to explain
even if only 500 people ever watch that
YouTube video I don't think the problem
is human vulnerability rappers are
vulnerable but they know the art form
they're engaging in involves boasting
and insults and death threats and
mockery constantly I think rap artists I
think hip-hop artists I think they know
before they pick up the microphone or
pick up the pen to write the lyrics this
is the job you don't have to be handsome
to be a rapper you don't have to be
handsome to be YouTube you don't have to
be beautiful to be a youtuber but one of
the most essential attributes is
precisely that you have to be that
person who can engage in critique and
counter criticism can deal with that you
have to be someone who thrives on
criticism instead of feeling driven to
desperation that's not an obstacle to
doing this job that is the job
[Music]